README.md, before:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-22041afd0340ce965d47ae6ef1cefeee28c7c493a6346c4f15d667ab976d596c.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/EppqwQTz)

# Setup

1. Clone the repo
2. `cd` into the root folder
3. Setup a virtual env
4. `pip install -r requirements.txt`

# Gathering Training Data

> ⚠️ The DIPPID android app sometimes becomes unresponsive after the phone's screen goes to sleep and has to be restarted. If the data gathering process does not react to button presses it is not an issue with this program but with the DIPPID android app. Restart the android app to continue.

```sh
python gather_data.py --sets 5 --duration 10 --activitiy "rowing" --prefix "name"
```
> 💡 The process captures data rows at a sampling rate of *200 Hz* by default. You can adjust the sampling rate with the `--sampling-rate` flag

To use this program connect a DIPPID client to the **IP** and **port** that are printed when the process starts.  
*If you want the DIPPID server to run on a different port you can pass it with the `--port` CLI param.*  

This will start the data gathering process for a total of `5` sets that lasts `10` seconds each.  
The resulting sets will be saved to `.csv` files in the data folder with the name schema `<prefix>-<activity>-<set>.csv`.  

Before each set the user is prompted to press `button_1` on the DIPPID device to start capturing for this set, after a short delay (configurable via the `--delay` CLI param)  
capturing for the current set starts. It is recommended to already start the motion during the countdown as to not introduce any weird data inconsistencies.  

When the program is done capturing the current set it will keep prompting the user for the next set until there are no more sets left.  
By pressing `button_2` when prompted to start the next set, users can redo the last set if there were any physical issues during recording.

### Resampling

```sh
python resample.py
```

To get the data sheets at a rate of **100 Hz** as described in [Task 1](./assignment03.pdf) you can either adjust the sampling rate directly or use the modified [resample script](./resample.py).  
This script will resample all `.csv` files in the `data` folder to **100 Hz**. (The script will interpolate missing data points if the existing frequency is below 100 Hz)

# Activity Recognition

> 💡 Activity recognition *can* be started as a console application seperately from the game using `python activity_recognizer`   
> 💡 If you want to run both at the same time you need to change the `--port` for one of them

## Usage

> ⚠️ The DIPPID android app sometimes becomes unresponsive after the phone's screen goes to sleep and has to be restarted. If the process does not react to movement it is not an issue with this program but with the DIPPID android app. Restart the android app to continue.

```sh
python fitness_trainer.py --session-file "sessions/balanced.json"
```

At the first start of the application the model is trained using the training data in [the data folder](./data/).  
It uses all `.csv` files in the folder. All files **must** follow this naming scheme `<name>-<activity>-<setnumber>.csv` or training will fail (the \<activity> is used as `y` for the classifier).  
Subsequent launches of the application will load the model from disk instead of retraining. The first launch can take a while due to cross-validation of parameters to find the best model.  

> 💡 A pre trained model is available in the repository at [svm_model-pretrained.pkl](./svm_model-pretrained.pkl)  
Rename it to `svm_model.plk` for the program to use it instead of training if your device takes too long.

The fitness trainer application was designed with training set configurations in json format.  
The default session file [balanced.json](./sessions/balanced.json) includes a full sample training session with all activites that the model has been trained on.  

```json
// A session config must follow this format
{
    "stages": [
        {
            "name": "Example Stage Name",
            "activities": [
                {
                    "name": "rowing", // Must be one of the available activities and be unique within the stage
                    "duration": 30, // Duration in seconds for this activity
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Once the game has started connect to the DIPPID server (ip and port are printed in the console) and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the training session.  
The overview on the bottom left shows a list of stages and a preview of activities included in them.  
On the bottom right, the activity meter shows if the user is currently doing anything or if they are idle.
The top half shows all activities in the current stage with a progress meter and the required duration, activities progress when the ML classifier predicts them and the activity meter threshold is met.

Commit message:

add confidence threshold cli param + readme section

README.md, after:

[![Review Assignment Due Date](https://classroom.github.com/assets/deadline-readme-button-22041afd0340ce965d47ae6ef1cefeee28c7c493a6346c4f15d667ab976d596c.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/a/EppqwQTz)

# Setup

1. Clone the repo
2. `cd` into the root folder
3. Setup a virtual env
4. `pip install -r requirements.txt`

# Gathering Training Data

> ⚠️ The DIPPID android app sometimes becomes unresponsive after the phone's screen goes to sleep and has to be restarted. If the data gathering process does not react to button presses it is not an issue with this program but with the DIPPID android app. Restart the android app to continue.

```sh
python gather_data.py --sets 5 --duration 10 --activitiy "rowing" --prefix "name"
```
> 💡 The process captures data rows at a sampling rate of *200 Hz* by default. You can adjust the sampling rate with the `--sampling-rate` flag

To use this program connect a DIPPID client to the **IP** and **port** that are printed when the process starts.  
*If you want the DIPPID server to run on a different port you can pass it with the `--port` CLI param.*  

This will start the data gathering process for a total of `5` sets that lasts `10` seconds each.  
The resulting sets will be saved to `.csv` files in the data folder with the name schema `<prefix>-<activity>-<set>.csv`.  

Before each set the user is prompted to press `button_1` on the DIPPID device to start capturing for this set, after a short delay (configurable via the `--delay` CLI param)  
capturing for the current set starts. It is recommended to already start the motion during the countdown as to not introduce any weird data inconsistencies.  

When the program is done capturing the current set it will keep prompting the user for the next set until there are no more sets left.  
By pressing `button_2` when prompted to start the next set, users can redo the last set if there were any physical issues during recording.

### Resampling

```sh
python resample.py
```

To get the data sheets at a rate of **100 Hz** as described in [Task 1](./assignment03.pdf) you can either adjust the sampling rate directly or use the modified [resample script](./resample.py).  
This script will resample all `.csv` files in the `data` folder to **100 Hz**. (The script will interpolate missing data points if the existing frequency is below 100 Hz)

# Activity Recognition

> 💡 Activity recognition *can* be started as a console application seperately from the game using `python activity_recognizer`   
> 💡 If you want to run both at the same time you need to change the `--port` for one of them

> ⚠️ The training data already contains all data from the shared repo + some extra sets. Changing the training set could require manual adjustments of the confidence threshold using the `--confidence-threshold` parameter!

## Usage

> ⚠️ The DIPPID android app sometimes becomes unresponsive after the phone's screen goes to sleep and has to be restarted. If the process does not react to movement it is not an issue with this program but with the DIPPID android app. Restart the android app to continue.

```sh
python fitness_trainer.py --session-file "sessions/balanced.json"
```

At the first start of the application the model is trained using the training data in [the data folder](./data/).  
It uses all `.csv` files in the folder. All files **must** follow this naming scheme `<name>-<activity>-<setnumber>.csv` or training will fail (the \<activity> is used as `y` for the classifier).  
Subsequent launches of the application will load the model from disk instead of retraining. The first launch can take a while due to cross-validation of parameters to find the best model.  

> 💡 A pre trained model is available in the repository at [svm_model-pretrained.pkl](./svm_model-pretrained.pkl)  
Rename it to `svm_model.plk` for the program to use it instead of training if your device takes too long.

The fitness trainer application was designed with training set configurations in json format.  
The default session file [balanced.json](./sessions/balanced.json) includes a full sample training session with all activites that the model has been trained on.  

```json
// A session config must follow this format
{
    "stages": [
        {
            "name": "Example Stage Name",
            "activities": [
                {
                    "name": "rowing", // Must be one of the available activities and be unique within the stage
                    "duration": 30, // Duration in seconds for this activity
                }
            ]
        }
    ]
}
```

Once the game has started connect to the DIPPID server (ip and port are printed in the console) and follow the on-screen instructions to complete the training session.  
The overview on the bottom left shows a list of stages and a preview of activities included in them.  
On the bottom right, the activity meter shows if the user is currently doing anything or if they are idle.
The top half shows all activities in the current stage with a progress meter and the required duration, activities progress when the ML classifier predicts them and the activity meter threshold is met.
